- [Instructor] We have seen how easy it is
to get started with Docker Compose.
Use a simple docker-compose.yml file
and create our application using that.
But in that application we had only one service.
Let's take a look at how can we create
a multi-container application in this case.
And for our use case, what we're going to do is
we're going to use WildFly,
which we used in a previous application
as the main application.
In that WildFly, we have an application to deploy.
That deployed application will be talking to Couchbase,
which is a new SQL document database.
And it'll be storing that data into Couchspace,
reading the data from Couchspace, using N1QL.
N1QL is a Couchbase programming language,
which allows you to run SQL queries on JSON.
So that's a typical business logic we're going to do.
So we're going to do CRUD on Couchbase document using N1QL
from WildFly to Couchbase.
And then because WildFly is our front end,
we're going to expose a REST API that can then be invoked
using cURL.
I know we're using cURL as an example,
but it could very well be any application
that can consume a REST API.
So let's take a look at our Docker Compose file.
Start up the application,
and see how we can manage it.
I'm using the exercise files.
And in this case, I'm looking at section 3.3.
That is my Docker Compose file.
I'm going to copy it here.
I'm back in my terminal.
This is chapter three directory.
And I'm going to make a travel directory here.
And the reason I'm choosing the name travel
is because the database in Couchbase that we're operating
is a travel sample database.
So I'm going into travel directory.
And in here, I'll create a docker-compose.yml file.
I'm going to paste the docker-compose.yml file here.
So let's save the file and take a look at it again.
Now, once again, we're using version three.
We talked about that in the previous section.
This is my top level services element.
In services, there are two services, web and db.
In the web service, essentially, I have a image.
This is a custom image, this arungupta/couchbase-javaee
and I'm giving it a travel tag.
In this image, I'm using a JBoss/WildFLy image
and then packaging a Java EE application.
And that Java EE application
is relying upon a COUCHBASE_URI environment variable.
And in this case, it points to db.
And when I say db, this is a name of the service
which is shown right here.
So the idea is that web service relies upon the db service.
And we don't need to hard code any name.
We're just using the logical name of the service over here.
Well, today, the service might be running
on one particular host, which we'll talk about
in a later section.
Tomorrow it might be running on a different host.
But from your perspective,
you are talking to the service using logical link.
So that's kind of the good part about it.
Now the WildFly service,
or my Couchbase-javaee travel service
exposes standard ports.
It also has a depends-on attribute here.
Now all it says is start the db service
before the web service.
The important part to understand here is
this is only a container level dependency.
What that means is it will only start
the db container before the web container.
What happens in the db container,
and what happens in the web container,
that is up to the application.
And in a second we'll take a look at it
that how the applications need to make sure
that the application is up.
So, for example, the Java EE application in WildFly
needs to make sure that Couchbase server is up
before they can start communicating.
So you need to understand container level up
and application level up.
Application level up is your responsibility.
And now when I'm looking at the db service,
it's, again, using a custom Couchbase image,
arungupta/couchbase :travel,
and this is basically using Couchbase as a base image,
it's using Couchbase REST API to pre-configure the database
and also load the travel sample bucket in there.
And we'll take a look at how these images were created.
And, here, I'm exposing the standard Couchbase ports,
which are the administrative ports, the query ports,
and the memcached ports, which are required
for the application to communicate and connect with it.
So let's take a look at the application first.
Then we will run the application
and see where it goes from there.
I'm in the browser now.
And, here,
you're seeing arun-gupta/couchbase-javaee application.
Now this is the Java EE application that is deployed
in WildFly, and based upon which my Docker image is created.
If I look at the source code for it,
database.java is where my database is initialized.
This is a PostConstruct.
So if you are familiar with Java EE,
this happens right after the constructor has been called
for the application, but the application is ready
for being consumed by the container.
All I'm doing is in that initialization phase,
I'm checking if my travel sample bucket has been created,
and it has a certain number of documents.
So I'm doing a while loop here
and checking every three seconds.
And we'll see this output when we verify the logs.
And then later on, I'm doing some counter-initializations,
because if we want to add a document
to the Couchbase sample bucket,
I should have that capability.
So that all initialization logic,
everything has to be done in the application.
That's not a container responsibility.
Let's take a look at how our Docker images
are created a bit.
I'm in my repo here, arun-gupta/docker-images.
If I look at Couchbase here,
this is how the Docker image is created.
Essentially, it is my Docker file.
And all it says is use the Couchbase latest,
copy the configure node in there.
And use that as my command.
If I look at what configure node does,
as we were saying earlier,
we're just using the Couchbase REST API
to configure the Couchbase server.
And then there is some other business logic
that we'll take a look at later.
But from your perspective, you're getting a Couchbase server
which is pre-configured,
and it has the sample bucket already loaded for you.
Now, in this case, line 21 is commented,
but the travel tags basically makes sure
this line was un-commented.
That's how that image was generated.
So let's go back to our docker-compose file.
And take a look at how can we fire it up.
Now, one more thing we need to see
before we actually do that, though.
This is back in my Couchbase Java EE project.
Here, I'm trying to read
the Couchbase URI environment variable.
This is the same exact environment variable
that was specified in my Docker Compose file.
So your point of contact, or handoff,
is that Couchbase URI environment variable,
which is pointing to the logical service,
which then gets resolved to the internal IP address.
But how it gets resolved, where it gets resolved,
should be completely transparent to you.
So let's go back, fire up our service
and see what happens there.
Now I'm back in my terminal
and let's see how I'm going to start this application.
Again, the command is very simple, docker-compose,
bring up all the services, as part of that
it'll download the services and run them in a detach mode.
So it's creating my default network.
And the reason the default network is created is
this allows the services to talk to each other
within that network itself.
So it's set up for network isolation that you get.
And now it's downloading the images,
and then it's going to run the containers within the service.
This will take a few seconds.
All right, now the images have been downloaded
and the containers have been started,
or rather the container within the services
have been started.
And, as we said, our db service
has started before the web service.
So that's kind of cool.
Let's take a look at the logs.
So you can see these are the logs
that are generated by my Couchbase server.
So if we pause here for a second,
this is all the output that is generated
by the Couchbase server where the REST API is involved.
It configures my Couchbase server using those REST APIs.
If we scroll down here gently,
now here, it's waiting for three seconds
before which it attempts to check,
oh, was the bucket created?
Is the number of documents uploaded?
So here you can see that the number of documents
that have been uploaded is already shown over here.
And now it's making sure that the indexes are created.
And once the indexes are created,
then basically our application is ready to communicate.
And, at this point, in my WildFly you're seeing
that the airlines.war file
was actually successfully deployed.
So that's kind of cool.
Now let's take a look at how can I access this application
from my perspective.
So let's kill the logs here.
I'm going to say curl http://localhost,
because that's where our Docker for Mac is running,
port 8080, that is my port forwarded for WildFly,
airlines is my application context.
This is a REST endpoint, and I'm going to say
show me all the airlines.
I want to emphasize another point
that we have talked about a couple of times
earlier in this course.
If you're using Docker Toolbox
as opposed to Docker for Mac or Docker for Windows,
accessing the URL using localhost will not work for you.
So make sure you get the IP address of your Docker machine,
that can be easily found using docker-machine IP
and the name of the machine,
and that'll give you IP address.
And instead of localhost, use that IP address,
and then the URL will work for you.
And the results come back to me
as a bunch of JSON document.
Now this is not very friendly.
So what we can do is take this URL,
copy it, go to the browser, and view this JSON document
in the browser as well.
We're back in the browser, pull up a new tab here.
And here it shows up.
Now if the browser had a JSON extension,
it would have shown up nicely here anyway.
So now that you have seen how the app looks,
let's go ahead and shut down our application.
So for that, we will go to our terminal
in order to close the app or shut down the app.
We will just give the command, docker-compose down.
And this will bring my services down.
And in this case it's dropping the web service
then the database service,
and eventually it'll delete the network as well.
All right, so the containers are stopped, removed,
and the network is removed as well.
So in this section we saw how we can easily create
multi-container applications.
Well, in our case, we used just a database container
and an application server talking to each other.
But these two containers
were able to collaborate with each other.
So by no means it is restricted
to just two containers, though.
You can have multiple containers defined
in your Docker Compose application.
And then they can work with each other
so that your application is resilient.
And what that means is
if your database host is moved from
one host to another host,
and assigned a different IP address,
but you're still referring to it
from the logical service name.
That's the important aspect of it.
So, once again, you can use docker-compose.yml
to define multi-container applications very easily.
With one single command you can start the services.
And one single command you can bring down the services.